now the White House has denied media
reports that Israel the US and Hamas
have reached a deal to release dozens of
captives in Gaza in exchange for a pause
in fighting well for more on this let's
go to our correspondent in Washington DC
John Holman so John almost immediately
after the Washington Post broke this
news about a potential hostage deal the
White House came out and denied it what
are you hearing
there yeah we've obviously put our own
requests into uh the White House and
also to the US state department for
comment on this and they haven't got
back to us uh yet this is a general uh
denial obviously from a white house um
spokesperson and it comes as you say
just after the Washington Post reported
that there wasn't a deal but there was
close to a deal that was being uh
mediated they said by Qatari officials
between Hamas and Israel with the US's
um
participation um in which there would be
more than 50 uh captives uh women and
children that would be freed in exchange
for a 5-day uh for a 5-day ceasefire uh
um um um with isra the Israeli troops
that are in Gaza and obviously the air
strikes so that's what the White House
is denying the a a similar deal to this
it's not the first time that it's been
reported media reports also surfaced
more than a week ago also talking about
a possible 5day ceasefire um in exchange
for the release of captives so this is
something in terms of captive release
that's been uh negotiated and something
has been tried to be uh struck over
several weeks now uh and uh it seems for
a moment that we might be getting close
what is certain is that there's an
increase in the pressure on Israeli
Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu to get
some sort of deal done there's been a
5-day walk by the families of hostages
from Tel Aviv to his Jerusalem residents
to try and put more pressure on him
there's um thought to be more than 200
captives uh in Gaza that were taken from
Israel on the day on the 7th of October
when Hamas uh launched their attack uh
on Israel so whether this deal is close
to be getting done or as the White House
now says is not being done there's
definitely still significant pressure
especially within Israel to do something
and also John in the Washington Post
we've had an opad written by President
Joe Biden just in the past few hours
talking about the war on Gaza who was
that aimed
at I think that would have been aimed as
much for domestic consumption here
within the United States as it would
perhaps people in Israel Gaza the
occupied territories over in the Middle
East it talked about an event ual
solution it talked about after what
would happen after the war in Gaza uh
and President Joe Biden was talking
about a two-state solution he was also
talking about the Palestinian Authority
governing Gaza as well as the occupied
West Bank which it currently governs
there's several problems uh with that uh
one whether the people in Gaza would
want that um there wasn't mention of uh
an election in uh President Joe Biden's
uh oped and one whether Israel also
would allow it they've prime minister
Benjamin Netanyahu has said that in its
current form he wouldn't want the
Palestinian Authority he wouldn't see
that as an option that they were
governing uh Gaza but definitely within
the United States within President
Biden's Administration and other
governmental agencies there's been
increasing resistance to the US's
support that some have seen of as
unqualified uh for Israel as it launches
this Invasion uh within Gaza there's
been a letter that more than 500 people
have said they're in agreement with
anonymously uh saying that they didn't
support uh this uh the US's support for
Israel uh members of governmental
agencies also a letter with more than a
hundred people the other way saying that
they did support uh PRI uh President
Biden's um support for Israel so this is
obviously something that's dividing the
United States right now and President
Joe Biden's oped was meant to clarify
that uh have uh some sympathy for the
plights of the Paris Palestinians um but
also set forth what he sees is the
future there for Gaza John hman bringing
us the latest there from Washington DC
thanks very much John